index.md, before:

## Welcome to GitHub Pages

You can use the [editor on GitHub](https://github.com/meixtan/EDS/edit/gh-pages/index.md) to maintain and preview the content for your website in Markdown files.

Whenever you commit to this repository, GitHub Pages will run [Jekyll](https://jekyllrb.com/) to rebuild the pages in your site, from the content in your Markdown files.

### Markdown

Markdown is a lightweight and easy-to-use syntax for styling your writing. It includes conventions for

```markdown
Syntax highlighted code block

# Header 1
## Header 2
### Header 3

- Bulleted
- List

1. Numbered
2. List

**Bold** and _Italic_ and `Code` text

[Link](url) and ![Image](src)
```

For more details see [GitHub Flavored Markdown](https://guides.github.com/features/mastering-markdown/).

### Jekyll Themes

Your Pages site will use the layout and styles from the Jekyll theme you have selected in your [repository settings](https://github.com/meixtan/EDS/settings/pages). The name of this theme is saved in the Jekyll `_config.yml` configuration file.

### Support or Contact

Having trouble with Pages? Check out our [documentation](https://docs.github.com/categories/github-pages-basics/) or [contact support](https://support.github.com/contact) and we’ll help you sort it out.

Commit message:

initial index
setting up the initial project description

index.md, after:

## Education Data Science in Action

The field of education data science offers opportunities for innovation in research and practice. The availability of new methods and data sources, catalyzed in an age of digital learning, has brought a variety of experts and novices together in multi-disciplined work. For some, education data science is the application of an existing domain of expertise to answering new questions. But as the popularity of the field expands, increasingly people begin at the intersection and navigate the growing body of work to find their avenue of contribution.

What does it mean to do data science in education? For each of the many different applications, led by practitioners of diverse backgrounds and skillsets, the answer varies greatly. This site is a repository of case studies aimed to illustrate the complexity and promise of the field through concrete examples of the work in action. 

_This project is a work in progress, so please reach out and contribute!_

### Data Mining in Practice 

The prospect of new data sources is a major force advancing the field of education data science. This section offers resources in data collection, management, and documentation.

_Oh look, a blank slate! The following table outlines the topic of articles that will soon inhabit this space. Every cell represents a type of data and the publicly available resources, private data sets available upon request, and methods to mine or collect the data from scratch._

| Subject/Method| Public Data-Sets | Private Data-Sets | Data Mining | Collection |
| ----------- | ----------- | ----------- | ----------- | ----------- |
| Learner Demographics |  |  |  |  |
| Assessments |  |  |  |  |
| Ed-Tech |  |  |  |  |
| Budgets |  |  |  |  |
| Add-Your-Ideas-Here  |  |  |  |  |

### Data Science Techniques in Practice

As the quantity and irregularity of data to be processed grows, the field must leverage data through novel methods to derive insight toward problems in education. This section offers resources in the application of data science techniques in a variety of settings.

_Oh look, a blank slate! The following table outlines the topic of articles that will soon inhabit this space. Every cell represents a piece on the people and projects working in that space, as well as tutorials and code-samples when applicable._

| Technique/Application-Setting| Education Research | Industry & Innovation | Government & Policy | School Districts & Educators |
| ----------- | ----------- | ----------- | ----------- | ----------- |
| Descriptive Statistics |  |  |  |  |
| Experiments & Causal Inference |  |  |  |  |
| Machine Learning & Artificial Intelligence  |  |  |  |  |
| Natural Language Processing |  |  |  |  |
| Network Science |  |  |  |  |
